Hagos,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the air object,
and the air object is spelled E r R allows us to know what our has been generated in our
procedure.
Okay?
And it allows us to know information about that error.
So what?
The area number is what the description is so that we can do different error handling based
on the type of error that I have faced in my procedure.
So let's have an example here.
I've got this procedure here,
and I've got two statements that are going to generate errors because the 1st 1 here works
.
It's my work she does Select is going to select the work shed A is called My worksheet,
which is actually not available in my workbook at the moment of deleted it.
So this one is gonna generate an air.
And also,
the second statement is a division by zero.
So it's going to generate an error as well.
So let's run this procedure here step by step.
So the first statement is going to generate an error.
Runtime error number nine.
Okay,
so the er number is nine.
I'm gonna comment the first statement okay,
so that we do not run it and I'm gonna run on procedures.
And only the second statement is gonna be run here,
which is the division by zero.
I know.
This year that is runtime Aaron.
Number 11.
So the air number is 11 here.
Okay,
So I'm just gonna remind myself that this error is nine,
and this one is error number 11.
Okay,
so I put reminders you're just for myself,
not to forgot.
And now what I'm gonna do is that I'm gonna create here a go to label zone,
are go to,
for example,
air handling.
And then I'm gonna create a label here,
cold air handling.
And now we're gonna test for the air number that's been generated.
So if peridot number is equal to nine,
then message box worksheet.
Cold boy work.
She does not exist.
Please create.
It s So this is the air message that's gonna appear if the heiress tested to be the one
here for selecting the worksheet that school money worksheet while actually does not exist
and notice here how I put the my worksheet ward here between two pairs of double quotes.
Because this is how you're gonna make the word my worksheet appear between two double
quotes while actually being inside a string.
So being between double quotes as well,
when you see that you understand it else.
If error dot number is equal to 11 then so in this case,
we have the divide by zero error.
Division by zero error message box.
You cannot divide by zero and then and if Okay,
so now we're gonna run our procedure.
So here we have on our go to air handling.
So this is gonna take us to the label called Air Handling And then this first statement
here worksheets.
My work,
she does it's gonna generate an error.
So they were going to jump to the air handling part here,
and we're gonna test for the error number,
and it's gonna be nine.
So we're gonna have this message box where she called Molly work.
She does not exist.
Police created and nose is here.
Why?
I put the mic worksheet between two pairs of double quotes because they wanted it to appear
between double course this way.
This is how you can make a word appear between double quotes when you put it in a message
box or put it in a string which should have to double quotes,
you know,
on its sights like that.
And we're gonna press OK,
and then we're gonna end the if statement and end sub.
So with tested the air because the air that's been tested or the area the first era that's
been captured here is the air for the selection of my worksheet.
While it does not exist,
we actually executed this one.
Okay,
we can actually comment this part here.
And if we run this statement again on our go to air handling and then range a wonder values
equal to one divided by zero.
So this way,
this one is going to generate an error,
which is the air for division by zero.
And we're gonna go to the air handling label here.
And when we run,
the if statement,
the 1st 1 is gonna be fools.
But the 2nd 1 is going to be true because the air number is gonna be 11 on.
We're gonna have a message box appear you cannot divide by zero,
and if and then we're gonna and the procedure.
So the err object or the air objects.
What it does is that it tests for the area numbers.
So this way you can generate a user friendly message,
for example that would tell the user what the air is because you're testing for its number
and each error in Excel Levy A.
Each one time heir has a unique error number.
So this way you can test for errors and generate user from the message boxes or take any
other actions that you would like based on that.
Another useful property for the air object is the air descriptions of the air dot
description property.
So what that does is that it gives you the description of the error.
Okay,
so get the same procedure here and have just generated a different message box here for
each error,
and it says air and then the pound sign or the hashtag sign and then concoct in eating that
onto the error number and then another concatenation onto a colon and then,
you know,
having a new line and then the er description.
So that's ah,
run that procedures to the first part here.
The first line of code here works in my work.
She does like this one is gonna generate an error,
and we're gonna jump.
We're gonna test for the air number is going to be nines.
We're gonna I have a message box appear here,
Erin Number nine subscript out of range.
And and if so now we're gonna end or procedure.
And then we can actually comment that line of code here,
and then we can run it again.
And the 2nd 1 is gonna create an error we're going to test for.
For the if statement,
we're gonna have this one to be true.
And then we're gonna have another message box here using the air Didot description property
year.
So I'm just using the air disc description to extract the description of the area.
And this is just the official description off the error that would appear if you encounter
the air.
So I'm just here telling you that you can use the air dot description here too,
including your message box.
And maybe you can ADM or description of your own or something.
Okay,
so the air dot description gives you the official description off the air.
I'll be also including and excel vb a one time Archie cheat in the resource is section for
this lesson.
And this Geechee includes all the V B A one time errors,
the codes and the message is that you should get so as to have that with you as a resource
.
OK,
so thanks for watching this video on else you on the next one.